---
slug: v0.10_migration
title: v0.10 migration guide
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

Once you've [installed Infracost v0.10](/docs/#1-install-infracost), follow this page to migrate. If you run into any issues, please join our [community Slack channel](https://www.infracost.io/community-chat) or [create an issue](https://github.com/infracost/infracost/issues/new), we'll help you very quickly 😄

## What's new?

Back in February, we started an ambitious journey: remove our dependency on the Terraform CLI by parsing code directly! Infracost v0.10 completes that journey 🎉

Infracost is now much faster, simpler to add to CI/CD, and does not need cloud creds since a plan is not required.

The experimental `--terraform-parse-hcl` flag has been removed and going forward, Infracost can be run in two ways via `--path`:

1. **Parsing HCL code (directory)**: the default and recommended option as it has the following 5 key benefits.
    ```shell
    # Terraform variables can be set using --terraform-var-file or --terraform-var
    infracost breakdown --path /code
    ```
2. **Parsing plan JSON file**: this will continue to work as before.
    ```shell
    cd /code
    terraform init
    terraform plan -out tfplan.binary
    terraform show -json tfplan.binary > plan.json

    infracost breakdown --path plan.json
    ```

### 1. Faster CLI

Infracost can now generate cost estimates *without* needing a Terraform plan. This removes our dependency on the Terraform CLI altogether, which means no more `terraform init` and `terraform plan`.

That, in turn, means a super-fast CLI: Infracost used to take around 50 seconds to run on our internal Terraform mono-repo, that's now reduced to 2 seconds. 🚀

### 2. No cloud creds needed

Removing our dependency on the Terraform CLI means you no longer need to set cloud credentials or Terraform secrets, which simplifies CI/CD integrations too.

### 3. Cost of TF modules

Not needing cloud creds/secrets or a Terraform plan means you can now generate cost estimates from [Terraform modules](/docs/features/terraform_modules/). It also enables cost estimates to be put in Infra-as-Code [repo readmes](https://github.com/infracost/infracost/issues/43) and [Visual Studio](https://github.com/infracost/infracost/issues/1546)!

To make `infracost diff` work without a plan, we introduced a new `--compare-to` flag so git-based cost diffs can be produced:
```shell
git checkout main
infracost breakdown --path /code --format json --out-file infracost-base.json

git checkout my-branch
infracost diff --path /code --compare-to infracost-base.json
```

### 4. Compare Infracost runs

The `infracost diff` command can now also be used to compare Infracost runs to see what's changed between historic runs:

```shell
infracost diff --path infracost-today.json --compare-to infracost-last-week.json
```

### 5. Detect multi-project repos

Setting the `--path` flag to a top-level repo directory will now attempt to process all projects automatically by:
1. Looking at the specified path or in any of the subdirectories with a depth less than 5.
2. Processing Terraform variable files with the `.auto.tfvars` extension (similar to what Terraform does).
3. Processing environment variables with a `TF_VAR_` prefix (similar to what Terraform does).

If this does not work for your use-case, use a [config-file](/docs/features/config_file/) and run `infracost breakdown --config-file=infracost.yml`, for example:
```yaml
# infracost.yml
version: 0.1
projects:
  - path: prod
    terraform_var_files:
      - prod.tfvars
      - us-east.tfvars

  - path: dev
    terraform_var_files:
      - dev.tfvars
```

## Removed functionality

If you previously used the following two options to see the cost breakdown of the current Terraform state, you can now just run `infracost breakdown --path /code` against the already-deployed branch.
1. The `--terraform-use-state` flag has been removed.
2. Running Infracost against a Terraform state JSON file is no longer supported.

If you previously ran Infracost with a Terraform plan binary file, you should now generate a plan JSON file and use that instead:
```shell
terraform plan -out tfplan.binary
terraform show -json tfplan.binary > plan.json

infracost breakdown --path plan.json
```

If you previously used the `INFRACOST_TERRAGRUNT_FLAGS` environment variable, you can now use `--exclude-path` with `breakdown` and `diff`:
```shell
infracost breakdown --path=. --exclude-path=dev --exclude-path=test
```

## Known issues

There are [known issues](/docs/features/terragrunt/#known-issues) with Terragrunt. However, there are [workarounds](/docs/features/terragrunt/#known-issues) you can use to unblock yourself and continue to upgrade to v0.10.

HCL parsing does not work with modules that have a `source` in a private Terraform registry. Comment on [this issue](https://github.com/infracost/infracost/issues/1667) if you need this.

## Migrations guides

1. [**GitHub Actions**](/docs/guides/actions_migration/)
2. [**GitLab CI**](/docs/guides/gitlab_ci_migration/)
3. [**Azure DevOps**](/docs/guides/azure_devops_migration/)
4. [**Atlantis**](/docs/guides/atlantis_migration/)

We've also updated our [Jenkins](https://github.com/infracost/infracost-jenkins/), [Bitbucket](https://bitbucket.org/infracost/infracost-bitbucket-pipeline) and [CircleCI](https://github.com/infracost/infracost-circleci/) examples.

<details>
<summary>Generic migration guide (if you can't use the above guides)</summary>

#### Option 1: Terraform directory (recommended)

Parsing HCL has no concept of Terraform state. This makes it super-fast, but this means you'll need to compare Infracost runs to show cost differences.

For example, the following v0.9 commands:

```shell
cd /code

# Checkout your feature branch
git checkout my-branch

# Generate Infracost JSON file, this internally invoked the
# Terraform CLI to create a plan JSON that was used by Infracost.
infracost breakdown --path . \
    --format json --out-file infracost.json

infracost comment github --path infracost.json ...
```

Needs to be rewritten as such in v0.10:

```shell
cd /code

# Generate Infracost JSON file as the baseline.
# Terraform variables can be set using --terraform-var-file or --terraform-var
git checkout main

infracost breakdown --path . \
    --format json --out-file infracost-base.json

# Generate a diff by comparing the latest code change with the baseline
git checkout my-branch

infracost diff --path . \
    --compare-to infracost-base.json \
    --format json --out-file infracost.json

infracost comment github --path infracost.json ...
```

#### Option 2: Terraform plan JSON

If you already use Infracost with a Terraform plan JSON, you don't need to change anything as that will continue to work (since the Infracost `--path` flag detects a Terraform plan JSON).

If you were used to running Infracost against a Terraform project directory, and want the old behavior where Infracost invoked the Terraform CLI, you can manually generate a plan JSON and use that instead:
```shell
cd /code
terraform init
terraform plan -out tfplan.binary
terraform show -json tfplan.binary > plan.json

infracost breakdown --path plan.json \
    --format json --out-file infracost.json

infracost comment github --path infracost.json ...
```
</details>
