---
slug: v0.9_migration
title: v0.9 migration guide
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

Once you've [installed Infracost v0.9](/docs/#1-install-infracost), follow this page to migrate. If you encounter any issues while migrating, [please report them](https://github.com/infracost/infracost/issues/new) and we'll address them as soon as possible.

## What's new?

🚀 We updated our JSON output format in Infracost `v0.9.0`. We also removed commands, flags and environment variables that were marked as deprecated in `v0.8.0`.

## Migration guide

### JSON output

The JSON output from `infracost breakdown --path=path/to/code --format json` has been changed to the following format:

* `version` has been bumped from `v0.1` to `v0.2`.
* `projects[*].path` has moved to `projects[*].metadata.path` and a new `projects[*].name` key has been introduced. This name is autogenerated from your code repository URL or the path you pass to Infracost. This enables you to see details of the project that was used to generate the cost estimate.
* The deprecated top-level `resources` key has been removed as they are now scoped by project.

```json
{
  "version": "0.2",
  "timeGenerated": "2021-05-31T18:02:49.412164+01:00",
  "projects": [
    {
      "name": "org/repo/subpath (stage)",
      "metadata": {
        "path": "path/to/code",
        "terraformWorkspace": "stage",
      },
      "pastBreakdown": {
        "resources": [...],
        "totalMonthlyCost": "730",
        "totalHourlyCost": "1"
      },
      "breakdown": {
        "resources": [...],
        "totalMonthlyCost": "1460",
        "totalHourlyCost": "1"
      },
      "diff": {
        "resources": [...],
        "totalMonthlyCost": "730",
        "totalHourlyCost": "1"
      }
    }
  ],
  "totalMonthlyCost": "2920",
  "totalHourlyCost": "4",
  "summary": {
    "unsupportedResourceCounts": {...}
  },
}
```

### Deprecated functionality that has now been removed

#### Root command

The deprecated root `infracost` command has been removed as we've moved to using subcommands:
- `infracost breakdown`: this works similarly to the previous `infracost` root command and shows a table breakdown of all resources by default. Run `infracost breakdown --help` to see the other options.
- `infracost diff`: this shows a list of the resources along with costs that will change when the Terraform plan is applied.

#### Report command

The deprecated `infracost report` command has been removed and replaced with `infracost output`.

This takes Infracost JSON files as inputs via `--path` and allows them to be combined and outputted in any format using `--format json|diff|table|html`. This command can be used with wildcards too, e.g. `infracost output --format html --path infracost*.json > output.html`. Run `infracost output --help` to see the other options.

#### Flags

The following deprecated flags have all been removed and replaced with `--path`:

- `--terraform-dir` / `--tfdir`
- `--terraform-json-file` / `--tfjson`
- `--terraform-plan-file` / `--tfplan`

The `--output`/ `-o` flag has been replaced with `--format`.

#### Environment variables

The following deprecated environment variables have been removed:

- `TERRAFORM_BINARY`: replaced with `INFRACOST_TERRAFORM_BINARY`
- `TERRAFORM_CLOUD_HOST`: replaced with `INFRACOST_TERRAFORM_CLOUD_HOST`
- `TERRAFORM_CLOUD_TOKEN`: replaced with `INFRACOST_TERRAFORM_CLOUD_TOKEN`
- `SKIP_UPDATE_CHECK`: replaced with `INFRACOST_SKIP_UPDATE_CHECK`


### CI/CD integrations

No changes are required for any CI/CD integrations.
